Instructor: Welcome back.
In this lecture
we are going to understand about AWS EKS cluster.
So how EKS cluster is going to work,
what are the core objects involved in the EKS cluster
and more details about that core objects-
what it can do and all those things.
So we are going to see
that in our introductory section of our EKS cluster.
So EKS cluster primarily will have four core concepts-
EKS control plane worker nodes and node groups
Fargate profiles and VPC.
So let's see one after the other
in a very high level
and then we'll go in detail
about those things in upcoming slides.
So EKS control plane is nothing but the master node
in our regular Kubernetes architecture.
So which means it'll host the outside
and then cube API server, cube controller,
all those stuff will be present in this control plane.
So now in regular Kubernetes,
we need to maintain our master nodes too.
But when we come to the cloud here
what happens is the entire control plane is managed by AWS.
So we really don't need to worry about
our high availability of our (mumbles)
or our cube API servers,
our controllers or whatever present in the master.
All objects is managed by AWS EKS control plane.
So we really don't need to worry.
So that's a complete manager service by AWS.
So our responsibility starts with provisioning the cluster
and after that provisioning the worker nodes,
nothing but node groups.
So not groups are nothing but group of EC2 instances
where we run our application workloads.
So we will provision the EC2 instances here
and then on those things we are going to
deploy our Kubernetes applications, whatever we want to run.
So the next comes the Fargate profiles.
So again, the same concept comes here.
So which means like we really don't need to
provision the hard model of EC2 instances
with CPU, RAM, all those things.
So we can directly deploy our Kubernetes applications
which means like our respective ports
on the Fargate profiles
and it is going to be like how much we need,
that much we can allocate
and then use in the serverless.
In simple term there is no wastage of resources
when we use the serverless concepts using Fargate profiles.
So the next thing is VPC.
So now Y VPC.
Y VPC is also a core object in EKS cluster.
So if you refer the documentation,
the core things they say is
control plane worker nodes and then Fargate profiles.
But when you see in a deeper view of your EKS,
you also need to understand one thing
like whenever you're deploying your production loads
your design and architecture plays the primary role.
So when we are doing the design, then the core thing
what we need to know is security.
So security comes from
how we design our virtual private cloud
which is nothing but the VPC, right?
So that's the reason I added the concept of VPC also here
and stating that that also comes under the core objects.
So now why this VPC?
Why? Because you can deploy your application workloads
directly on the public subnets in the EKS cluster
or you can create a node group in the private subnet
and deploy there or you can even deploy Fargate profiles.
And another important thing here is Fargate profiles
can be created only
if your VPC is having minimum one private subnet
which means Fargate profiles only run non-private subnets
which means we should be aware of VPC concepts
and also we should be aware
of public and private subnets
and equal and security groups
and how we are going to handle it.
And when you deploy the things in the private subnets
what happens like if our cluster,
if our application workloads or even the workloads
whatever you have deployed
means like our worker nodes
present in the private subnet need to be communication
with the EKS control plane.
So for that purpose
also it need to deploy the VPC NAD gateways.
So there are multiple concepts involved
with the VPC in addition to these three core objects.
So that's the reason VPC
also becomes one of the core feature for EKS cluster
from design perspective.
So now let's see, how does this EKS work?
So this image
I directly took it from the AWS documentation.
So what we are going to do that is the core thing, right?
So first we are going to provision our EKS cluster,
which is nothing but our control plane.
And once we provision our EKS cluster
we are going to create the node groups
nothing but deploying our worker nodes.
So now our cluster, which is nothing,
but master is ready and the worker nodes are ready.
So what we are going to do is we are going to
deploy our applications.
So to deploy our application workloads
we need to connect to our cluster.
So we are going to do that using our Kubernetes Kubectl CLI.
So kube, CTL CLI.
So once we deploy, we can run our Kubernetes apps
on the respective Kubernetes clusters.
So that's about on a high level.
Let's see, each of our components,
means like whatever we set the core objects
in detail step by step.
So EKS control plane.
It says single tenant Kubernetes control plane
for each cluster
and control plane infrastructure is not shared
across clusters R AWS.
So it is going to be independent for us.
And another important thing is this control plane
consists of at least two API servers
and three outside nodes
that run across three available zones within a region.
And as AWS is going to manage it
so EKS automatically detects
and replaces unhealthy control plane instances
restarting them across the availability zones
within the region as needed.
So that's about control plane on a high level.
So the next thing is worker nodes and then node groups.
So worker missions in Kubernetes are called nodes
and these are nothing but our regular EC2 instances only
but the AMI specifically designed for Kubernetes from AWS.
So another important thing here
is EKS worker nodes running our AWS account
and connect to our clusters control plane
where cluster API server endpoint.
So now here what we need to understand
is this cluster server API endpoint
should be exposed to the internet.
Our means like our worker node should be accessed internally
to the VPC using this cluster API server endpoint
or our worker nodes need to go
via internet and then access this APIs server endpoint.
These are design strategies
how we are going to design our EKS cluster.
So all those things we can look into
in our production design section.
So, and another important thing here
is a node group is one or more EC2 instances
that are deployed into a EC2 auto scaling group.
So when we are doing the cluster autoscaler
we'll understand the concepts of these auto scaling groups
and then how we can automatically scale
our worker nodes
based on the CPU and memory resources available.
So we'll see that
in a dedicated manner in this separate specific section.
One more important thing here
is all instances in a node group
must be of same instance style
be running the same AMI
and use the same EKS worker node IAM role.
So all these are core things, okay
But do we need to worry about all these things here?
No. So when we use the EKS CTL command line
most of the things are achieved directly out of the box.
We don't need to worry about worker node IAM role
or running the same AMI or running the same instance there.
All these things are automatically taken care with EKS CTL.
So the next thing is Fargate profiles.
So AWS Fargate is a technology
that provides on demand
right sized compute capacity for containers.
So with Fargate,
we no longer have to provision, configure or scale
groups of virtual missions to run with containers.
So each pod running on Fargate
has its own isolation boundary
and does not share
the underlying kernel CPU resources, memory resources
or elastic network interface
with another part.
So AWS especially built Fargate controllers
like how we have the cube controller
and then cloud controller in Kubernetes master
Same way, they have something called Fargate controller
and that recognizes the ports belonging to Fargate
and then schedules the many Fargate profiles
based on this SELECT US concept,
which we are going to
see specifically in our Fargate section.
So we'll see more in our Fargate learning section
all these things.
So another thing is VPC.
So EKS uses AWS VPC network policies to restrict traffic
between control plan components within a single cluster.
We have discussed a little bit also about this.
So how you are going to access
the cluster API server endpoints
from our worker nodes
is a decision of ours,
how we want to access it
inside the VPC or via internet edge,
which means like your cluster API server enter endpoint
should be how you want to expose it.
So, and another important thing here
is control plan components for EKS cluster
cannot view or receive communication from other EKS cluster
present in same AWS account or in other AWS accounts
Okay? Unless we authorize the Kubernetes RBAC policies.
So this confirms that our EKS cluster is highly secure
and highly available configuration
makes us reliable and recommended
for deploying our production workloads.
So all in all
EKS is ready for deploying our production workloads.
But the core thing here is each concept
need to be drilled down in detail
and then understood in detail so how we are going to use it.
So all these things we'll do in a step-by step.
So what we are going to do
is we'll see the Kubernetes concepts.
and EKS related AWS services
are EKS attached AWS services hand in hand.
And then we'll understand everything in detail.
So I'll see you in the next lecture and then bye bye.
Thank you.